---
index: 6
lang: "en"
title: "Signals"
meta_title: "Signals - Processes"
meta_description: "Learn about Linux signals, their purpose, common types like SIGINT & SIGKILL, and how processes handle them. Understand signal basics for better Linux control."
meta_keywords: "Linux signals, SIGKILL, SIGINT, process communication, Linux tutorial, beginner Linux, Linux guide"
---

## Lesson Content

A signal is a notification to a process that something has happened.

### Why We Have Signals

They are software interrupts and have many uses:

- A user can type one of the special terminal characters (Ctrl-C) or (Ctrl-Z) to kill, interrupt, or suspend processes.
- Hardware issues can occur, and the kernel wants to notify the process.
- Software issues can occur, and the kernel wants to notify the process.
- They are basically ways processes can communicate.

### Signal Process

When a signal is generated by some event, it is then delivered to a process; it is considered in a pending state until it is delivered. When the process is run, the signal will be delivered. However, processes have signal masks, and they can set signal delivery to be blocked if specified. When a signal is delivered, a process can do a multitude of things:

- Ignore the signal.
- "Catch" the signal and perform a specific handler routine.
- The process can be terminated, as opposed to the normal exit system call.
- Block the signal, depending on the signal mask.

### Common Signals

Each signal is defined by integers with symbolic names that are in the form of SIGxxx. Some of the most common signals are:

- SIGHUP or HUP or 1: Hangup
- SIGINT or INT or 2: Interrupt
- SIGKILL or KILL or 9: Kill
- SIGSEGV or SEGV or 11: Segmentation fault
- SIGTERM or TERM or 15: Software termination
- SIGSTOP or STOP: Stop

Numbers can vary with signals, so they are usually referred to by their names.

Some signals are unblockable; one example is the SIGKILL signal. The KILL signal destroys the process.

## Exercise

Practice makes perfect! Here is a hands-on lab to reinforce your understanding of processes and how signals are used to interact with them:

1. **[Manage and Monitor Linux Processes](https://labex.io/labs/comptia-manage-and-monitor-linux-processes-590864)** - In this lab, you will learn essential skills for managing and monitoring processes on a Linux system. You will explore how to interact with foreground and background processes, inspect them with `ps`, monitor resources with `top`, adjust priority with `renice`, and terminate them with `kill`. Terminating processes with `kill` is a direct application of sending signals.

This lab will help you apply the concepts of process management and the underlying use of signals in real scenarios and build confidence with Linux system administration.

## Quiz Question

What signal is unblockable?

## Quiz Answer

SIGKILL
